There are many big data
processing systems, but
how do we make sense of them in order to
take full advantage of these systems?
In this video,
we will review some of them, and
a way to categorize big data processing
systems as we go through our review.
After this video, you will be able
to recall the Hadoop ecosystem,
draw a layer diagram with three layers for
data storage, data processing and
workflow management.
Summarize an evaluation criteria for
big data processing systems and
explain the properties of Hadoop,
Spark, Flink,
Beam, and Storm as major big
data processing systems.
In our introduction to big data course,
we talked about a version of
the layer diagram for the tools
in the Hadoop ecosystem organized
vertically based on the interface.
Lower level interface is the storage and
scheduling on the bottom and
higher level languages and
interactivity at the top.
Most of the tools in the Hadoop ecosystem
are initially built to complement
the capabilities of Hadoop for distributed
filesystem management using HDFS.
Data processing using the MapReduce
engine, and resource scheduling and
negotiation using the YARN engine.
Over time,
a number of new projects were built
either to add to these
complimentary tools or to handle
additional types of big data management
and processing not available in Hadoop.
Arguably, the most important
change to Hadoop over time
was the separation of YARN from
the MapReduce programming model
to solely handle resource
management concerns.
This allowed for Hadoop to be extensible
to different programming models.
And enabled the development of
a number of processing engines for
batch and stream processing.
Another way to look at the vast number of
tools that have been added to the Hadoop
ecosystem, is from the point of view of
their functionality in the big
data processing pipeline.
Simply put, these associate to three
distinct layers for data management and
storage, data processing, and resource
coordination and workflow management.
In our second course,
we talked about the bottom layer
in this diagram in detail,
namely the data management and storage.
While this layer includs Hadoop's HDFS
there are a number of other systems that
rely on HDFS as a file system or implement
their own no SQL storage options.
As big data can have a variety of
structure, semi structured and
unstructured formats, and
gets analyzed through a variety of tools,
many tools were introduced to
fit this variety of needs.
We call these big data management systems.
We reviewed redis and
Aerospike as key value stores,
where each data item is
identified with a unique key.
We got some practical
experience with Lucene and
Gephi as vector and
graph data stores, respectively.
We also talked about Vertica
as a column store database,
where information is stored
in columns rather than rows.
Cassandra and
Hbase are also in this category.
Finally, we introduce Solr and
Asterisk DB for managing unstructured and
semi-structured text, and
mongoDB as a document store.
The processing layer is where these
different varieties of data gets
retrieved, integrated, and analyzed,
which is the primary focus of this class.
In the integration and processing layer
we roughly refer to the tools that
are built on top of the HDFS and YARN,
although some of them work with
other storage and file systems.
YARN is a significant enabler of many of
these tools making a number of batch and
stream processing engines like Storm,
Spark, Flink and being possible.
We will revisit these processing
engines and explain why we have so
many later in this lecture.
This layer also includes tools like Hive,
or Spark SQL, for
bringing a query interface
on top of the storage layer.
Pig, for scripting simple big data
pipelines using the MapReduce framework.
And a number of specialized analytical
libraries for machine learning and
graph analytics, like Giraph as GraphX of
Spark are examples of such libraries for
graph processing.
And Mahout on top of the Hadoop stack and
MLlib of Spark are two options for
machine learning.
Although we have a basic overview of
graph processing and machine learning for
big data analytics later in this course,
we won't go into the details here.
Instead, we will have a dedicated
course on each of them
later in this specialization.
The third and top layer in our diagram is
the coordination and management layer.
This is where integration,
scheduling, coordination, and
monitoring of applications across many
tools in the bottom two layers take place.
This layer is also where the results of
the big data analysis gets communicated to
other programs, websites, visualization
tools, and business intelligence tools.
Workflow management systems help to
develop automated solutions that can
manage and coordinate the process of
combining data management and analytical
tests in a big data pipeline, as
a configurable, structured set of steps.
The workflow driven thinking also
matches this basic process of data
science that we overviewed before.
Oozie is an example of a workflow
scheduler that can interact with
many of the tools in the integration and
processing layer.
Zookeeper is the resource coordination and
monitoring tool and
manages and coordinates all these tools
and middleware named after animals.
Although virtual management is
my personal research area and
I talk more about it in other venues,
in this specialization we focus mainly
on big data integration and processing.
And we will not have a specific
lecture on this layer in this course.
We give you a reading on big data
workflows after this video as
further information and
a starting point for the subject.